
In the next decade, we will be experiencing a technology revolution like
we have never seen before. Blockchain technology can help solve several
problems that we are currently facing in our software applications,
banking system, Internet, etc. This is about TRUST – how much can we
trust the information available on the internet, and the publicly
available documents and articles, etc? Digital records or documents
often get modified for personal benefits, i.e., car record, real state
records, health records, legal documents. We cant seem to trust any
source of information. There are articles on the Internet that evaluates
the benefits and harmful effect of a product, but there is no way to
validate the source of information/content. When buying a product on
Amazon, buyers often look at the product reviews for decision making.
However, there are several crowd sourcing websites where seller can
crowdsource reviews for 50 cents. What’s the point of having reviews
when the reviews are unreliable? Same applies to the transparency of
agreements/documents of the real estate, identity verification, medical
records, marketing, legal, law enforcement, banking finance, insurance
etc. Consumers often get tricked by the hidden rules and regulations of
the companies in those fields, but it won’t be possible with the
imminent blockchain technology. All documents created will become
immutable. If changes are made, the changes will be recorded with a
digital mark and with information of who, what and when it was changed.
In this digital era, the way we regulate things needs change.

Blockchain is a distributed ledger, where information is stored and
processed across several computers. The absence of centralized
information makes it harder for hackers to hack or corrupt the
information. Blockchain technology can be applied to industry in every
sector. It is also commonly known as Web 3.0. One can think of
Blockchain as the combination of several existing technologies. There
are three major technologies being used; Private Key (unique id)
Cryptography, Distributed ledger, and Network/Transaction verification.
Private key is a unique id for every individual and is used for
peer-to-peer transactions; Distributed ledger holds the history of all
transactions from all over the world. The transactions are distributed
across several servers around the world. Every transaction occurring
needs verification, which is done by the miners (giant GPU clusters).
The miners will receive rewards by sharing computing power. After every
successful transaction, it is written to the ledger by adding a new
‘block’ of information. The blocks are linked together as a ‘chain’,
hence, called ‘block-chain’. Having several copies of ledger distributed
across servers makes it a fault tolerant system.

There are numerous application for blockchain. Currently, we are
approaching an era of Artificial Intelligence where we are bound with
the limitation of computation. Blockchain can play a major role in
overcoming such limitations. The verification network (miners) of
blockchain is an enormous computing power. Combining all the miners
together creates the largest computing power in the world. This power
can be used to overcome the computing limitation of the current AI and
an AI could live off this giant computing network. There are projects
currently working on similar ideas (SingularityNet), if this becomes
successful, we will have a real time AI which has access to the data
from ledger and can be used for any kind of forecasting and prediction.
It may sound dangerous, however, by implementing appropriate
regulations, it may not be as threatening as it may seems. This is just
an example of one application. There are several ways to apply
blockchain technology, viz., verification of school records (degree,
scores) for better and transparent merit based admissions/scholarships;
medical records verification for better health treatments; immigration
records verification to avoid forgery; banking systems to empower fast
and reliable global transactions; automotive industry for tracking
vehicle full history, digital content to avoid copyright issues and
provide better incentives for content creators; insurance industry for
better claims adjudication and to reduce disputes with transparency;
credit history for more accuracy, transparency, and accessibility. The
era of blockchain is inevitable, it is just matter of time until we
realize the power of blockchain technology by understanding how it can
help solve existing problems.
